Let's get started with the first practical lecture.
This course is best enjoyed using two monitors.
You can run and pause if necessary a lecture video on one monitor and open intelligent idea on the other
monitor.
Then you can go along when we create the example projects step by step.
You can see that things work for yourself and if you feel inclined, you can pause the lecture video
and explore the greater dstl and the Gradle APIs yourself, or try around with some different configurations
than the one we are doing in the course.
The only thing you need as preparation is to have a Java version installed and a recent version of the
intelligence community edition.
If you don't have that, you can download it from the jet print website.
Intelligence is the idea with the best gradle integration today, and that's what we are going to use
it.
In the unlikely case you don't have Java installed, IntelliJ should also be able to provide it for
you if you don't have intelligence yet.
Pause the video here, download it and install it and then we can continue.
Now the only other thing you need is an empty folder, because we'll build the project step by step,
looking at each file individually to understand why it is needed and which configuration goes into which
file.
I call the folder my project, but you can call it whatever you like.
Then we open the folder and intelligent.
I have it here in my favorite project already.
If you don't have it there, you can click on open and select the folder.
And Teddy has specific support for creative projects, so it knows about Gradle and how to read the
project structure from Greater.
But this is not a greater project yet, and intelligence doesn't know that we want to use Cradle.
We can make it a greater project by adding the so called settings file.
This is the entry point of every Gradle project.
If the file exists, IntelliJ or Gradle itself will recognize this folder we just created as a greater
project.
So let's go ahead and create this file.
It's called settings and then Dot, Gradle or CTS.
So CTS stands for Kotlin script.
So if you add this extension, greater notes that you want to use the Kotlin variant of the greater
DSL.
If you leave it out, Groovy will be expected as soon as a Settings file exists.
IntelliJ recognizes this and suggests to us to import this as a greater project, which we do.
We can see now that intelligence added a bunch of extra files for us.
This is a so called creative wrapper.
As you may have noticed, we didn't need to install Gradle itself somewhere.
It's a great wrapper is a tool that takes care of this for us.
It's a small tool that you can add to your project and also commit to version control, for example,
to get so that everyone who wants to build this project automatically get the right gradle version to
build it with and doesn't need to install anything.
We see that there are two start scripts, one for Unix and one for Windows to start the creative wrapper
and create it through it.
And then there is a jar file, which is the actual implementation of the wrapper and the wrapper properties
file to configure the wrapper.
If we open the properties file, we can find a greater version here.
IntelliJ chooses the last version it knows about.
If you want to use another version, you can change it here.
We'll use the latest Creative seven release.
At the moment, this video was recorded, but you may use a newer version as well.
Everything I show in this course will be compatible with the upcoming Gradle versions.
Also, new major versions relate every time we change something in a related file.
IntelliJ will detect this and then suggest that we do a new sync of the project.
This means that IntelliJ reads the structure of the software project again from the description we do
in Gradle.
So every time we change something, IntelliJ has to recreate this model so that it's in sync with what
we describe in Gradle.
If you press this button now, it might again take a moment because we change the greater version potentially.
You may also have noticed that as we imported the greater project, IntelliJ offered an additional view
for us.
The greater view.
We can use this to execute gradle tasks, which we will talk about later, but there's also a link button
here in the upper left.
So if you need to trigger a sync, an intelligent doesn't offer you the small sync button in the upper
right of the file.
You can also trigger the sync here.
Let's leave the grey wrapper for now because before we can use Gradle to do something useful, we actually
have to describe our software project to Gradle.
So let's start in the settings file we already created.
As I said, the settings file is the entry point of the project and therefore it contains the description
of the project structure.
In Gradle, a project is split up in so called Subprojects, which you can look at a separate software
component.
So for any larger or growing software, it does make sense to split it up into multiple components.
And even if you start a small project, you can start with one component here and add more potentially
later.
So what this course will use an example where we have built a Java application consisting of three components
a data model, four data classes, a business logic component for services and an app project with some
blue code to assemble the final application.
We express that we want to have these components in terms of created subprojects by using the include
statement in the settings file.
After we did this and sent the model again, IntelliJ We can create folders corresponding to the names
of the components.
And we can see that intelligence.
Marks this a separate project.
So this is something I learned from Gradle that these are now separate components that we want to develop
in details about what each single component is and how it relates to other components will be configured
in another place in the build file, which we'll get to in the next lecture.
Let's first see what else should be put into the settings file.
So apart from the components we develop ourself, software usually also depends on other existing components.
In the case of Java, these are Java libraries or Java components located in repositories like Maven
Central.
So what we can also do in the settings file is terrible about such locations where other components
can be found.
So it's the dependency resolution management block where you can declare such repositories.
For example, we can say if there is a component that is required, which is not part of this project,
look in Maven Central to potentially find the component there.
Another widely used repository is a Google specific one that provides Android libraries.
Or if you and your company have your own repository, which might be a mirror of Raven Central, you
can add your own repository like this.
You can also add more configuration in such a configuration block here where you could provide credentials
for the battery if needed.
Now the components located in the repositories are binary components.
That means that they are already built either by gradle or another build tool.
But Gradle also supports build a component from source if required.
So what we can also do here is use the include build statement to tell Gradle that there is another
great build somewhere that can potentially build a component that we need in large projects that are
potentially distributed over many repositories.
This can be used to split up one software project into multiple gradle builds, or if you depend on
some library that's usually available on Maven Central, but which you need to patch.
You can clone the repository.
If it's a greater build patch, it's there and include it here.
And then Gradle will use the patched version of the corresponding component if needed.
Note that here we only tell Gradle about locations where to potentially find components.
It doesn't say anything yet about which components we actually need.
So only adding this here does not yet have a practical effect when we later run a build, only when
we define dependencies to certain components, greater need to discover this will be important.
We'll get to that later.
Also, these locations are for discovering components that you need for your production code, so for
the software or the product you are building.
Example could be that you use some Apache Commons libraries later in your code and Gradle needs to discover
them somewhere.
For example, in Maven Central.
But then Gradle itself is also extensible with creator plugins.
These are essentially also jobs or Java code that needs to be built, which implements certain gradle
interfaces.
So the mechanism to extend gradle itself is quite similar to adding libraries to the software you're
building.
For this.
There is a plugin management block in the settings file and inside the block you have the same construct
as in the dependency resolution management.
You can add repositories for Gradle to discover additional plugins.
There is the greater plugin portal where most plugins are available, but plugins could also be hosted
on Maven Central.
Or for Android in the Google Repository.
Or if you mirror these repositories or publish your own gradle plugins to some repository, you can
add custom repositories here as well.
And then there's also a include build statement here.
So you can develop Gradle plugins locally and include them here.
This is a very important mechanism for well-structured gradle build setup because you should always
write local gradle plugins.
We'll get to that in a bit.
The last thing you can do in the setting file is giving a fixed name to the build.
So it's not necessarily needed, but it's helpful because the name sometimes turns up in reports.
If you don't set the name, it is derived from the folder name.
So in this case, setting the name to my project would make difference here locally.
But if I would push this to get a repository and on another machine, you check this out into a different
folder.
The name would change that by setting a constant name.
Here is recommended.
There are more things you can potentially do in the settings file, but in a good, well structured
build.
This is mostly what you should do.
So to quickly recap what we've done now we have started the new software project was Gradle adding a
settings file to a folder.
Already made it a way to project.
Then we have said that our software should consist of three components data model, business logic and
app.
In Gradle.
These are called subprojects.
And we define them with the include statement in the settings file.
We've also told Gradle about locations to look for other components we might potentially need later.
This can be located in repositories in binary already built form or another local gradle builds.
These are all places to find additional components for our production code that should become part of
our application.
And then we've also told Gradle about locations where it can find additional plugins to extend Gradle
itself.
We haven't used any of these yet, but we'll get to that.
But first, we want to give some meaning to our own components, which at the moment only empty folders.